Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn how to
get a string input from the user
So we can use the format specifier %s in scanf
to get a string input from the user. for
an example
See this code here
Char name[20]; scanf( "%s" ,name);
But if you noted the scanf statement a little
more carefully you can see that the value is read
to name and not &name
and we have learned that whenever we use scanf
we have to write &variable_name
But it is not applied here
What do you think is the reason? It is because
string name itself is the base address of the string.
For example we have char word[6] equal
to hello here For this string the base address is 1000
and string name Word will be holding this base address
1000 so we don't need to give  & operator
in scanf while getting the string input
Now let us see how to use %s format
Specifier in printf function to print a string
So we have a string here And if we use
%s in printf to Print this string it will
print all the characters one by one until it encounters
and null character
So here it will print h e l l o and
stops since next character is a null character
Now let us see a simple programme to understand the
working here
So we have the main function and a character array
declaration for name with 10 locations
Then we ask the user to enter the name
Supposed the user enters Alan
Then we read the input to name using %s and
remember not to put an & so it will
read and after n, null character will be stoned
Now we print a welcome note using %s format
Specifier so it will print the characters until a null
character is encountered
So we get the output
Welcome Alan and return zero
So that was just one case
now let us see another case where the user enters the
name for loop
So what you have to note here is that there
is a white space in the input
So when it is scanned what happens is that
for will be saved and in the next location null
character will be saved that is %s will stop
getting input after the first space
So when the printf statement is executed it will print
the characters until a null character is encountered and we
get for only now lets see another case Where
user enters apple mango banana So when scanf executes
there is insufficient space in the array. So the programme
execution will be aborted due to buffer overflow. So that's
all and thank you for watching this video